in the kitchen we use a term
called yield factor and this refers
to the edible portion compared
to the as purchased portion
to process in this case carrots
we will remove the peel and the top
and bottom ends as they are not edible
when we compare the edible portion to the as
purchased portion we will get a yield factor
this is typically less than one it can be
expressed as that number or as a percent in other
words if it was 80% we would know that we would get
8 kilos edible out of every 10 kilos as purchased
once the peel is removed the top and bottom ends
of the carrots are removed and even if these
are used in chicken stock we're not considering
them part of the edible calculation at this time
the trim or inedible portion
and the edible portion should equal the as
purchased amount you'll notice in this case if
it's off by 10 grams it's simply because the scale
is not any more precise than a 10 gram increment
yield factor can be used for pricing
and ordering the correct amounts